gg----to move to first line.
dG----to delete from first to last line.

Copy and Paste Commands
--------------------------
You can copy lines or words from one place and then you can paste them at another place using the following commands −
Command & Description	
yy--Copies the current line.	
yw--Copies the current word from the character the lowercase w cursor is on, until the end of the word.	
p--Puts the copied text after the cursor.	
P--Puts the yanked text before the cursor.

Change Commands
------------------
You also have the capability to change characters, words, or lines in vi without deleting them. Here are the relevant commands −
Sr.No.	Command & Description
cc--Removes the contents of the line, leaving you in insert mode.	
cw--Changes the word the cursor is on from the cursor to the lowercase w end of the word.	
r--Replaces the character under the cursor. vi returns to the command mode after the replacement is entered.	
R--Overwrites multiple characters beginning with the character currently under the cursor. You must use Esc to stop the overwriting.	
s--Replaces the current character with the character you type. Afterward, you are left in the insert mode.
S--Deletes the line the cursor is on and replaces it with the new text. After the new text is entered, vi remains in the insert mode.

Saving and Closing the file
------------------------------
Shift+zz – Save the file and quit
:w – Save the file but keep it open
:q – Quit without saving
:wq – Save the file and quit


Moving within a file
-------------------
k – Move cursor up
j – Move cursor down
h – Move cursor left
l – Move cursor right

VI Editing commands
---------------------
i – Insert at cursor (goes into insert mode)
a – Write after cursor (goes into insert mode)
A – Write at the end of line (goes into insert mode)
ESC – Terminate insert mode
u – Undo last change
U – Undo all changes to the entire line
o – Open a new line (goes into insert mode)
dd – Delete line
3dd – Delete 3 lines.
D – Delete contents of line after the cursor
C – Delete contents of a line after the cursor and insert new text. Press ESC key to end insertion.
dw – Delete word
4dw – Delete 4 words
cw – Change word
x – Delete character at the cursor
r – Replace character
R – Overwrite characters from cursor onward
s – Substitute one character under cursor continue to insert
S – Substitute entire line and begin to insert at the beginning of the line
~ – Change case of individual character
